One two, one two, one two, one two, one two. One two.
This is October the 4th, and at Wednesday
afternoon, sitting in the nice, quiet, cool
living room, family room at 1502 Glade, getting
ready to talk to Dr. Charles Bridges about his
experiences, particularly as a faculty member
here at Texas A&M. To introduce yourself, on tape
and later in transcript, describe where you grew
up, went to high school, then to college. In other
words, quickly get us to where you come here to be a
faculty member. I actually was a high school
student at Webster, Texas, up through the ninth
grade, and my father transferred to Jasper County
in 1937. and where I finished two years there at
Jasper High School. And that move was a little bit
upsetting, as many would expect, and it took me two
years before I could get at it. One day a friend of
mine came by and said, come go with us. I said, where
are you going? He said, we're going to A&M. I
thought about that a while. I said, when are you
doing this and what are you going to do?
I decided I'd go with it. He said, what are you going
to take? I said, what are you taking? He said,
veterinary medicine. I said, okay. Now what year
was that? That was 1941, September 1941. and
things just took their own life from that point
because it was a challenge to take. I'd always been
interested in academia and I was interested in
your experience as a Rice President. When I was at
Webster, my mentor there would program me to go to
Rice. My move then from there changed all that.
Let's slow down then. If you got here in 41, that's
too important.
Let's concentrate on your student years. We might
come back another day and do facts. What did you
know about Texas A&M before you got here? I knew
very little about Texas A&M. At Jasper, there was
not a lot of promotion of the colleges. As a matter
of fact, The students really promoted business
schools in Beaumont and things like that. And a few
of the classmates attended A&M because they were
related. For example, two of them were involved by
working in veterinary clinics and things like
that and had more of a
And I said, well, that might be all right. Had you
ever been over here to visit? I'd never been here to
visit. And I had made an application when I got the
county judge to give me a letter of
recommendation, which is not unusual in small
towns like that. And I did not have a lot of family
because they wanted me to stay around. I was the
only kid. son. And what did your family do for a
living? Well, my father worked for Harris County
Probation Department for years until he went to
Jasper and there he had built a home and he did the
variety work, worked in carpentry and had his
little farm, as a lot of people do, as kind of a
supplement with working hours and things like
this. Describe, you came over with some friends in
a car? When we came to register, yes. That was the
only time. What did you bring with you? Describe
all of the, or how little, whatever it was. Well, I
don't remember that I brought very much. I
remember that I came in and this individual was the
same straight as I was. He wasn't economically
endowed and He had been working the student labor,
and he had a room with Mr. Myers out at the East Gate
in the attic, and that's where I spent the first few
times. So then I went to, after that he introduced
me to student employment. I forget the name of it
now, man and gentleman. And so I went there, and he
first gave me a job or two, I remember, One day
during the ball game, I was mowing Peggy Down's
yard and somebody just kind of, without a real
strong support, would do. And then I later got a job
with the housing office and Mr. Harry Boya and the
commandant's office. where I worked and actually
I don't know whether I have a guard group now or not,
but I was one of the participants in controlling
that. Do you remember what the pay was for those
early jobs?
Well, there was many jobs. I ran the newsstand at
Sabeza. At the same time, worked and ran messages
out of the guard room for students in the halls who
kept their telephones down. This was all the time
you were a freshman? Yeah. Now, and where were you
living? I was in Ross Hall. Describe your room.
What was in it and what furnishings and... We had a
typical dorm room. We had the bunk beds with the
hard wooden chairs and And that was a desk, it was a
table mainly, and that was about it. And of course
there was a telephone there, and we answered the
telephone, because what happened was the
Operation Brian would call and say, would you go
get so-and-so to get done with the telephone?
Because in those days, students would get
adjusted to the telephone array in the dorms,
they'd throw them off and tear them off the wall.
Was that the only telephone on your floor? The
telephone cordon, well the four involved the
housing of the Commandant's office, and then our
room, and I forget, the Commandant and the
housing, Harry Boyer's office was the housing.
Boyer?
Describe how you got put into some outfit and how
you and your fish buddies were treated in that
outfit. I would have to tell you that it was
different not being living in the dorm. I was an
on-campus day student, you might say. And I was
assigned to A Troop, 1st Cavalry, and later,
probably out of disgrace, pushed into Machine Gun
Troop. What, did it have a number, name? No, it was
just Machine Gun Troop and A Troop.
But you were in the Corps and wore a uniform,
weren't you? Oh, yes. That's one reason I couldn't
tell you how much I brought with me, We were issued a
certain number of trousers and shirts and what
have you. Otherwise, I participated. Other than
that, I didn't live in a dorm. Describe your first
fall. Describe a typical day. What times did you
get up? What did you do when? Take from getting up
all the way through that day.
I used to go to the 80 out and have a little trouble
with some of this.
We would rise and clean straight up our rooms and
take whatever's left there and then actually, as
much as I was working multiple jobs, most of the
time I would go and dust the Commandant's office
because I'd swept it the night before. And then
come back and go eat at Sabisa and then back to the
room and go to classes. Did you fall in and march to
Chao? No. But you ate in Sabisa. Did you eat with an
outfit?
No. The best restaurant I remember, but I don't
remember. Okay. All right. Because most of the
time, for example, I ate on the leg table, for
example, in the evenings, and that was great
because we would usually go to one of the athletes
that had eaten and would have multiple pies and all
the steaks we would eat. And that first fall, do you
remember the courses, some of the courses, some of
the teachers you had that first fall?
English, math, science? Yes, I remember some of
the English, and that was tough.
I had always been a pretty good student, and yet not
challenged very much. Those were different
times. And as you know, the English department
took no prisoners.
I don't remember that. The
math, I forget what it was, really. I remember more
about the biology and the old building over there.
Do you remember who the biology teacher was? I can
remember him now. I can't put a name onto him. I just
offhand. Were all the courses tough in terms of
grades? Those, actually, I did much like I did in
high school. I floated through because I had major
problems and working schedule I had and not having
the time for corrected glasses. I would go to eat on
the lake table, eat too much, get a quart of coffee
to bring back to the room and take a nap and get up and
drink that quart of coffee almost and then study 30
minutes and that was it. The rest of it I got to
class. All right. In the afternoons, did you have
any spare time? Or were you working just about all?
Well, it was working most of the time, yeah. It was
after they sent his classes over that it was to the
janitor's job and most of that, and then back to the
road and whatever came. Did you make some close
friends that first year? Well, I had a lot of
acquaintances, and yes,
I kept so many of them that's gone by that I've
continued to have relations with them. I don't
remember a lot of them I had. There was not time for
having fun, you might say. Did you and the other
fish get hazed? Some, yes. Describe. Well, the
hazing was usually, I have to say I was in a unique
situation. Being working for the commandant's
office, I had a certain unasked for immunity.
So that made some difference, I think. Did you and
your buddies ever pull off any pranks or play
tricks on anybody? Oh, there was a little floating
out of people, individuals, and stuff like that.
But, say, my life as a cadet was not the usual. In
other words, in a company, a troop, and what have
you. Two years old. Older than anybody else. As a
matter of fact, I was of the age of the juniors and
seniors. And I guess my attitude may have
reflected it. And not intentionally, but... And
that fall, there was a good football team here. Did
you go to all the games? Very few of them, really.
How often did you go home? About once a month. How
would you get there? I would go out to Eastgate and
stand in line with a thumb, and I would get a ride
into Houston, and with a dime, I'd go across
Houston. I'd ride to get a ride to Beaumont, and
with a dime, I'd get across Beaumont, and then I
would hitchhike home. And sometimes getting out
late, I had to look for a ride, and we were there five
miles out of town. But it was, it was interesting.
Reckon how long it took to catch a ride from here to
Jasper?
It was very, fairly fast considering. I'm saying
this, there was no time much spent except standing
in line. And of course sighted traffic was pretty
good along that Highway 6. Did you ever have any
interesting experiences hitchhiking? Well,
occasionally. I had a few girls try to pick me up in
Houston and places like that, and of course I was
headed home and there were other interests there.
But you never had any negative, no troubles, no
problems? No, not yet. In other words, a young
person, this is all new experience. I did get into
outside of Beaumont one time and had a ride with a
trucker and I asked him where he was going. He said,
New Orleans. I said, can I go?
So I ended up in New Orleans.
So far, I've not recorded a single negative Aggie
hitchhiking experience. No. And you always wore
your uniform hitchhiking? Always. There was no
other way. In those days, if you weren't in the
service, at our age, there was a question about
you. And I think that young men, particularly in
those days, were very conscious of that. Now, did
you and your buddies become part of the Aggie
slang? Did you all have the names for food? Oh, yes,
always. What was your favorite Aggie chow food,
chow hall food? What was it? Steak. Chicken fried?
A lot of times it was just grilled. Grilled?
Anything that you didn't like? Yeah, ribs. The
ribs? The ribs. And was there always plenty of
food? Well, yes, always plenty of food. No problem
there. Did your outfit get together and do
anything as a group?
I can't remember that part. What about December 7,
1941? Do you remember that day? Yes, I was at Ross
Hall, and we heard all the gods on the radio.
Describe that as fully as you can. Well, I can't
remember that well, except it came about, and we
were concerned, you know, it had all come before
actually conscription had started to mean
things, and we all had our numbers with the drafts.
and we're concerned about those things and I know
that I remember when I went there and of course
everybody had to get in the Corps or have a good
excuse and I had to memorize the eye chart and I
remember A-P-E-O-T-F-D-Z even this day I can
remember that as being the critical line that one
of my cohorts has helped me memorize and so we were
concerned about that and I think pretty well
concerned about what was going to happen. Of
course, it turned out in the end that we were exempt
as students of veterinary medicine and you may
have known that and Then later, we actually, after
a couple years, we were actually given a
commission on the basis of our education. All
right, now, but you were a freshman here that first
year. And you started off majoring in veterinary.
Did they call it pre-vet then? They called it
pre-vet. Two years? Oh, just one year.
Back to December 7, did you and your buddies listen
to President Roosevelt when he talked to Congress
that next day? I
don't remember that. Do you remember any changes
that happened in the routine after the war got
going here?
Were you part of the group that went on the
trimester? Well, the trimester program, we went
continuously, yes. And
did you go on into the vet school then? Yes. See, I
was in vet school only three and a half years. It was
a five year program and we completed all that. I was
a class of 45 as I signed up. And I graduated in
February of 45. As far as you can recall, what kind
of grades did it take to get into vet school then?
Actually,
as I remember it, you had to maintain a C average to
make proper progress. And if you didn't flunk out,
you went off. But the classes were restricted to
100. And so when they adjusted for those that just
didn't make it, then there was no selection
committee, you could say, other than that. Do you
remember how many entered with you?
No, I don't. And that would have been the fall of
1942? No, it was, well, actually we knew nothing
about entry of any of them. to the veterinary
school. You signed up for the program in
veterinary medicine. Oh, and just went right on.
He just went through. If you didn't flunk out, you
made progress. As I remember it, and the faculties
of mine in here may have been such a thing. Who was
the dean then? Marsteller was the dean, yeah.
Describe him, please, as you remember him. Dr.
Marsteller was an aging individual at that time,
and a very,
well, old gentleman. He was sad and wore, as I
remember, a mustache. And
jovial at times and otherwise. And the students,
like they always do, always have opinions. They
say, well, he has good days or he has bad days. And
that was down in the administration building. The
old administration building on the second floor
was where his offices were. Now, where and where
was the, and it was the School of Veterinary
Medicine, wasn't it? Yes. And where was it
located? It occupied a good bit of Francis Hall,
and a lot of the basic sciences were taught there,
and then what is now, I think, civil engineering
building down on that northeast corner. And where
were the stalls and all for the animals? The stalls
were actually to the north of the, and actually
adjacent to the civil engineering building.
Those buildings are basically there now. They've
been converted. And then all of that area, this
parking lot now was was horse pasture. And as I
remember when I first came, University Drive was a
gravel road, and you couldn't ride a bicycle very
well on it because it was large river stones.
And as you remember your classmates in veterinary
medicine, were most of them country boys or city
boys? I think it varied considerably, yeah. I
never
knew a lot. The only things I recognized, be it a
country boy for example, would be the people from
West Texas, which were ranchers and they actually
were, set themselves apart because they were kind
of cowboy types and what have you. Did you make some
close friends early on in veterinary medicine?
Who were some of those? Well, I had a boy named Mike
who was recently deceased. What's his name? Born
in Myatt, M-Y-A-T-T.
Of course, I came over here with Leland Grumbles,
who is now retired and was head of microbiology.
Actually, I lived in the same community.
Charlie Boyd was in my class. We were pretty close.
We never did room together. Once you entered the
vet school, did you remain in the Corps? Oh, yes.
Well, we remained in the Corps until 43. Okay. And
we completed all the basic ROTC. And then they
developed this
to, I think, some way or another, they got the, that
the veterinary students, they were inactive,
they had to conserve that because at that time they
were, they had a heavy war over in India and China,
and horse-drawn material, and the veterinarians
were considered to be a kind of an important
resource, according to that time. Plus the fact
that food services, the food inspection service,
that they, to form a way of giving them immunity
from being called in, they were commissioned,
second lieutenant in the medical administrative
corps. Now, as you began your veterinary studies,
was there any ceremony? to welcome you first-year
students? No. You just started. We were there. You
were there. To whom did you and your friends turn
for advice? What courses to take? What to do about
this? Who was there? We turned to each other, and
actually the curriculum was pretty well set. It's
in the catalog, and you took it. Okay. The only
advice you could get is, what can I get away with,
because I didn't make this course. I'd have had
that problem, but there was no counseling as such
that I know of. How rigorous, how demanding were
the courses in medicine compared with what you'd
had before?
I never felt they were demanding in a way. A lot of
them I did not excel in. But a lot of my problems was
time. And I teetered along just on the brink a good
bit.
Were you paying your own way? Oh, yes. Okay. $23 a
month, and that took care of it. I worked two years
with the Agricultural Adjustment
Administration in the county and saved money up
and I gave my dad some and I talked him into buying a
car and I gave him part of that to cover that and
left. And they'd send me $15, $20 occasionally.
About how many of your friends had enough money
that they didn't have to work? About what
percentage worked and didn't work? What percent
had a job here? I would not want to be checked on
that, but I would say that 30 or 40 percent of them
had to work. Yeah, I'm going to at least that.
All right, and so you all go year-round then to
classes, and did any of many of your friends drop
out and go volunteer, or did they stay pretty well?
You all stayed pretty well together. There was an
option there that was offered, and some of them did
take that option to go on, and what happened was
they had a... Most of them took the commissions and
then when they developed the Army Student
Training Program, the STP, they went for a year and
then they decided that
we're not going to be needing these people. That
they all gave them the option of leaving that and
going on to do the service from there, or else just
dropping out and continuing school. And there
were a few then that took that option, joining the
Navy or what have you.
Then you reported for active duty when?
Well, after we resigned our commission and
accepted this program, that was in June of 43. You
had already graduated? No. Oh. We had a year to go.
June of 43, I was two years to go.
But in June of 43, this program started. And then in
44, it ended. And then we got out and continued
school. And we were all into a company, ASTP.
So you graduated when?
Was there a big ceremony, commencement? You know,
I don't even remember being there. That's how
significant it was. So you don't remember where
the family came or? Oh, no, they didn't come. Okay.
And then you reported for active duty?